# 15.1 Greedy algorithms
solving optimization problems
making the seemingly best choice at each decision-making stage of the problem

Dynamic programming and Greedy algorithms:
- commonly used to solve optimization problems.
- relying on the property of optimal substructure
- Dynamic programming considers all previous decisions at the current decision stage and uses solutions to past subproblems to construct solutions for the current subproblem.
- Greedy algorithms only proceed with greedy choices, continually narrowing the scope of the problem until it is solved.

## 15.1.1 Advantages and limitations
- Advantages:
  - straightforward
  - simple to implement
  - Time efficient
## 15.1.2 Characteristics
- Greedy choice property: The locally optimal choice can always lead to a globally optimal solution.
- Optimal substructure: The optimal solution to the original problem contains the optimal solutions to its subproblems.
## 15.1.3   Steps for solving problems
- Problem analysis: Sort out and understand the characteristics of the problem, including state definition, optimization objectives, and constraints, etc. This step is also involved in backtracking and dynamic programming.
- Determine the greedy strategy: Determine how to make a greedy choice at each step. This strategy can reduce the scale of the problem at each step and eventually solve the entire problem.
- Proof of correctness: It is usually necessary to prove that the problem has both a greedy choice property and optimal substructure. This step may require mathematical proofs, such as induction or reductio ad absurdum.

## 15.1.4 Typical problems solved by greedy algorithms
- Interval scheduling problem: Suppose you have several tasks, each of which takes place over a period of time. Your goal is to complete as many tasks as possible. If you always choose the task that ends the earliest, then the greedy algorithm can achieve the optimal solution.
- Fractional knapsack problem: Given a set of items and a carrying capacity, your goal is to select a set of items such that the total weight does not exceed the carrying capacity and the total value is maximized. If you always choose the item with the highest value-to-weight ratio (value / weight), the greedy algorithm can achieve the optimal solution in some cases.
- Stock trading problem: Given a set of historical stock prices, you can make multiple trades, but you cannot buy again until after you have sold if you already own stocks. The goal is to achieve the maximum profit.
- Huffman coding: Huffman coding is a greedy algorithm used for lossless data compression. By constructing a Huffman tree, it always merges the two nodes with the lowest frequency, resulting in a Huffman tree with the minimum weighted path length (coding length).
- Dijkstra's algorithm: It is a greedy algorithm for solving the shortest path problem from a given source vertex to all other vertices.

### Coin change problem
Always choose the largest denomination coin that does not exceed the remaining amount.

## 15.2 Fractional knapsack problem