Key Questions
-  What are two ways to give objects a net charge?
-  How do we find the magnitude and direction of the electrostatic force exerted by one charged object on another?
-  Why do charged objects attract neutral ones?

# Electric Forces
The 4 fundamental forces
- Gravitational Force: Attractive force between masses
- Electromagnetic Force: Force between charged objects
- Strong Nuclear Force: Force that holds atomic nuclei together
- Weak Nuclear Force: Force responsible for radioactive decay

# Electric Charge
Electric Charge is the intrinsic property of protons and electrons, which make up all matter, is electric charge.
- Proton: Positive charge
- Electron: Negative charge

SI unit of charge is the Coulomb (C): 
$ 1 \text{ C} = 1 \text{ A} \cdot \text{ s} $
Electric charge is quantized, meaning it comes in discrete amounts. The elementary charge (e) is the smallest unit of charge:
$ e = 1.602 \times 10^{-19} \text{ C} $

-e : electron，muon，tauon
+e : proton，positron
0e : neutron，photon，neutrino

Any electric charge, q, occurs as integer, N multiples of the elementary charge e.

# Static Electricity
What is static electricity?

How is it produced?
How does it behave? 
Does it have any uses?
Is it dangerous?

Charging an object by rubbing is called triboelectricity:
- Rubbing the glass.
- when running a plastic or rubber comb through your hair, little bits of stuff can be picked up by static electricity.
- after rubbing a balloon on your hair or a wool sweater, it will stick to the wall.

In general, it’s typically electrons that are transferred.

Static electricity is based on negative electrons and positive protons. 
positive designation established by Franklin: After rubbing with silk, becomes positively charged. The extra electrons in the silk give it a negative charge, and the lack of electrons leaves protons on the glass without complementary electrons, so it has a net positive charge. Thus, positive charge on an object is either an excess of protons or a lack of electrons, and negative charge just indicates more electrons than protons.

Triboelectricity is the tendency of the material to release or accept electron.
Table 3 Triboelectric series short summary


